1 ANNOUNCE
**********

This is version 0.22.0 of the GNUstep GUI library (`gnustep-gui').

1.1 What is the GNUstep GUI Library?
====================================

It is a library of graphical user interface classes written completely
in the Objective-C language; the classes are based upon Apple's Cocoa
framework (which came from the OpenStep specification as release by
NeXT Software, Inc).  The library has been enhanced in a number of ways
to take advantage of the GNU system.  These classes include graphical
objects such as buttons, text fields, popup lists, browser lists, and
windows; there are also many associated classes for handling events,
colors, fonts, pasteboards and images.

   The GNUstep GUI Library is designed in two parts.  The first part is
the front-end component which is independent of platform and display
system.  This front-end is combined with a back-end component which
handles all of the display system dependent such as specific calls to
X/Windows.  This design allows the GNUstep applications to have the
"look and feel" of the underlying display system without any changes to
the application, and the library can be easily ported to other display
systems.

   The GNUstep GUI Library requires the GNU Objective-C compiler, the
GNUstep Base Library, the TIFF Graphics library, and a back-end
component like the GNUstep 'Back' Backend.

1.2 Noteworthy changes in version `0.22.0'
==========================================

New features include:
   * This version is binary incompatible with previous versions due to
     the change of NSNotFound in GNUstep base.

   * Support for drawing the GUI with a scale factor, for high-DPI
     monitors.

   * Character panel

   * Color picker "Magnifier" tool, for grabbing the color of arbitrary
     parts of the screen

   Many NSImage improvements (Mac OS X 10.6 drawing methods, better
selection of image reps, better support for icons). Many bugfixes,
including in Xib loading, printing, and NSView geometry.

1.3 Where can you get it?  How can you compile it?
==================================================

The gstep-gui-0.22.0.tar.gz distribution file has been placed at
`ftp://ftp.gnustep.org/pub/gnustep/core'.

Read the INSTALL file or the GNUstep-HOWTO for installation
instructions.

1.4 Where do I send bug reports?
================================

Please log bug reports on the GNUstep project page
`http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gnustep' or send bug reports to
<bug-gnustep@gnu.org>.

1.5 Obtaining GNU Software
==========================

Check out the GNUstep web site. (`http://www.gnustep.org/'), and the
GNU web site. (`http://www.gnu.org/')

